# Keaton Davies 2025 Graduate
## Full Stack Engineering since 2024!

Hello, I am Keaton Davies. I've been working on getting my Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science since 2022. I've had a long road and I've had plenty of setbacks. This is my professional reflection on my work that I've done throughout this course. I've attempted this Capstone three times now. The first time I tried I had my hard drive fail. The second time I had my Aunt die. This time I've had a CPU fan fail but that didn't stop me this time. I've pushed through and that alone speaks to my perseverance. This has been a marathon and not a sprint in my case. Outside of my course work I've built several small goofy python scripts. One of which is a little discord bot that responds when specific words are used in a chat, and another is a D&D stat generator that 'rolls' six sets of three six sided dice to determine a character's ability scores. In my professional work I am currently working at a Non-profit where I am an IT Specialist II and part of a very small IT team. I manage a little bit of everything from printer issues all the way up to major outages alongside our Director and the other two IT specialists. 

## Collaboration
When it comes to collaborating with others in a team environment I focus on the following: Empathy, Adaptability, and Proactive Support. These are the cornerstones to how I handle problems. I am able to work with my peers that might not have the same technical aptitude and I help provide them the support they need in order to get their work done. Adaptability is also important because no matter what happens there can always be a different solution to the same problem and no one is just like the other when it comes to computer knowledge and ability and so I can adjust how I describe a problem based on what they bring to the table. Lastly would be my Proactive support, oftentimes individuals see IT as a moneysink in most corporate settings, which it can be, but IT also is the main line of defense. Proactive support is identifying issues before they become major problems which is what I excel at. I keep a strong vigil and I work to make sure that when an end user has a problem I've got at least one solution if not several.

## Communication 
Communicating with Stakeholders is a bit different for me than when I am collaborating. I still feel like the above work but I also want to hone my focus on ensuring that communication is clear and reports follow what they are looking for. It doesn't help to provide a several page ticket report if they only wanted to know information about why a specific issue had been left to languish for a day. I also work to build the idea of me as a reliable source of information. I am not shy of explaining that I currently don't have an answer but I would be happy to research and find one if I don't. Lastly, I work to make sure that my suggestions, changes and proposals all fall within our businesses current objectives. I recently helped decide on the purchase of several laptops for our growing Adult Education sector that we've been building over the last year.

## Data Structure and Algorithms 
A deep understanding of data structures and algorithms has been fundamental to my growth as a Full Stack Developer. Through various coursework and projects, I learned how to apply efficient algorithms and choose the right data structures to optimize performance in both front-end and back-end development. For example, I used hashes to create well-defined user login security. These experiences strengthened my problem-solving skills, enabling me to write clean, optimized code that improves the overall user experience and system performance. My ePortfolio showcases my course-work from my Full-Stack Developement Class (CS465), highlighting my ability to solve complex problems—a critical skill that makes me more employable in competitive development roles. During this Capstone I went ahead and refactored my original code and made sure that it was both functional and elegant.

## Software Engineering and Databases
My coursework in computer science provided me with essential skills, including proficiency in modern web frameworks like React, Node.js, and Express, alongside HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for front-end design. On the back end, I gained experience building robust APIs and integrating them with NoSQL databases, ensuring scalable and efficient data management. I also became proficient in using Git for version control and collaborating in Agile environments, allowing me to contribute effectively to team projects. My database knowledge was applied in MongoDB for flexible, unstructured data storage. The project featured in my ePortfolio, demonstrating my ability to develop end-to-end solutions that balance performance, maintainability, and user experience. This full-stack expertise, paired with strong software engineering principles, positions me as a capable and adaptable developer ready for real-world challenges.

## Security
Over the course of the last two years while working to get my bachelor's degree I've had a focus on Cybersecurity as my concentration. I've completed coursework covering everything from python scripting all they through to full-stack developement and Application Security Features. I've touched on the topics of Salt/Hash Tables, I've worked with setting up Authentication sources in my Full-Stack App. One of the enhancements was actually getting the Authentication system working. In my original design I had left this portion unfinished as I had ran out of time to get it corrected. Now with my updated code this is functional. I've covered vulnerability and patching, and how to handle breaches and important topics like the CIA Triad and how these make the building blocks for better Security Policy decision making.

---
## My Full-Stack Developement Application
In my Full-Stack Developement class we were tasked with creating a full stack webpage using MEAN which is MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node.Js. We set up the page with some pre-existing HTML elements from our 'client' Travlr Travel Service. I completed my final commit of my original design on December 14th, 2024. I had some issues when it came to the final completion of this module. I had broken logins, buttons that didn't work, some CRUD features that didn't exist and overall I was dissastisfied with most of my code base as a whole. I saw several opprortunities over this course to spruce it up, get things working as intended and ultimately expand on my original design to produce something that is fully functional and showcases my talents. I feel like this Artifact is a good showcase of my skills because it includes everything. As a Full-Stack webpage it has front end using Java and HTML, a backend using MongoDB, and using Mongoose as an intermediary highlights my ability to create something that highlights all the skills necessary to show I'm ready to earn my degree.

The Enhancements I made completely cleaned up my code, showing a skill in code writing, and communication. I've added functionality that was missing, overlooked, or didn't function in the first place.

---
## Code Review

(placeholder) 

---

## Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering
For the first enhancement I was overall dissastisfied with the course guides as they had been presented. It required using old installations of some applications just to get it to run correctly or the professor had to advise that the guides were incorrect in places. Overall I went ahead and completely rebuilt most of this code from the ground up. It still ultimately displays the same because I didn't want to deviate too far from the original but on the back end everything was overhauled. During this process I touched on almost everything. I was able to get several features that before weren't working at all updated. With the updated applications in mind I did have to change how the routing worked between the front and back end. When I first had made this project according to the original documents I hadn't made a Delete function, I wasn't able to authenticate users, and the SPA for updating the database was broken and only displayed the header and a white page.

During this course of this enhancement I refactored the base code and got these features either created or working as intended alongside just getting everything cleaned up and working with updated versions of NPM. This highlights my ability to solve logical problems in software, address design flaws that would have been issues for security, and overall showcase my ability to update my code to industry standard best practices.

## Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Structure
(Placeholder - completed SPAs, and updated HTML structures, Link to updated files)

## Enhancement Three: Databases
(Placeholder - completed CRUD modules, and updated Admin Login SPA, Link to updated files)
